Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and we're going to be discussing the
realized price. If you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe to the
channel, give the video a thumbs up, and
also check out the sale on
IntoTheCryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com where you can of
course get access to these indicators
that we're talking about.
In this video, we're going to be
discussing the realized price for
Bitcoin. Now, I understand that some of
these
on-chain metrics are not always the
easiest to understand, but to break this
one down, the realized price is
essentially just equivalent to the
realized cap, right? Like the realized
um
cap of Bitcoin divided by the
circulating supply. Now, you might say,
"Well, okay, you get this you understand
the circulating supply, but what is the
realized cap?" The realized cap is is
basically looking at the aggregate of
what Bitcoin was trading at when those
coins were acquired. That's all it is.
So, fairly straightforward. You just
take the realized cap divided by the
circulating supply and you get the
realized price. Why do we care about the
realized price?
The realized price is this green line.
And what you'll notice is that
throughout all these bear markets,
Bitcoin has historically gone below the
realized price before the market cycle
bottom was in. Okay? You can see that it
did that in 2011.
Um it it did it in 2014, 2015. It also
did it in 20 2018. It even did it in
2020. Um and and you know, Bitcoin has
fallen a lot, but it hasn't quite gotten
below the realized price. So,
this is just one metric. There's other
metrics as well. Obviously, there's the
balanced price, which is even lower than
the realized price, but historically,
Bitcoin has gone below the realized
price
in bear markets. And right now, the
realized price is around 53 to 54k. Now,
I understand that if Bitcoin were to go
to those levels, it would break some
models. But as I've said previously, all
models are wrong, some are useful. So,
we'll see if it goes there, but again,
the realized price is around 53 to 54k.
Historically, we go below the realized
price
near the end of bear markets. And now
that we're getting into, you know, we're
we're in June, we're getting close to
that second half of the midterm year, we
have to be aware that this is a a
possible outcome. And one of the things
we can do is we can look at the price of
Bitcoin divided by the realized price,
and you can see this line here is at
one, so when the green line goes below
that level, Bitcoin is below the
realized price. We're not quite below it
just yet, right? We're not quite below
it just yet. And this would also align
with the idea that, you know, when the
supply of Bitcoin in profit and loss
crosses, it means the low is near, but
historically the low occurs within about
1 to 4 months. So, the cadence of this
chart also looks somewhat promising. And
and if we do see Bitcoin go below the
realized price, historically, we don't
spend that much time down there, right?
Like it's not like we we spend that much
time below the realized price.
So, we'll see if this plays out like it
always has, but you can kind of see what
I'm looking at, and I know some people
get frustrated when I talk about this
stuff cuz everyone just wants the market
to bottom and start heading higher, but
remember, I'm just presenting the data
as I see it. I don't control what the
data is, and I just think it's my
responsibility to to tell you guys uh
and and to present it to you whether,
you know, whether you like it or not.
Now again, I there's a lot of models
that would say that 60k is the low, and
and that we won't go lower, but
you know, those are are certainly more
optimistic models. One of the things
that is making this bear market so hard
is that a lot of the models kind of
disagree. Like some things say the low
is in, and then there's others that say
it's not. And the terminal price is one
that would in fact argue that it is in
fact not in. And remember, if Bitcoin
does bottom out later this year, like it
normally does in mid-term years, all
this stuff could align and it could look
very similar to the end of all prior
mid-term years. If you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe to the
channel, give the video a thumbs up, and
again, check out the sale on
IntoTheCryptoverse Premium at
IntoTheCryptoverse.com.
Thank you guys for tuning in and I'll
see you next time. All right.